>> Brian Holt: So
let's actually use search term right.
Right now we're not really
doing anything with it.
I just wanted to show you
that if we replace this
.state.search term here
inside of the h1 and
then we come back over here to
our nice little thing right here.
>> Brian Holt: Notice that we
have nothing right there and
then as soon as I start typing
it's echoed over here, right?
>> Brian Holt: So
this data is bound to this one, so
whatever's in the input is also
gonna be input over there, right?
So this kind of bends back to
what I was talking about earlier.
You have to think of react components in
terms of given a certain set of state and
a certain set of props, this is what
it's going to look like, right?
So you think about react in
terms of snapshots, right?
Given this snapshot of props and
this snapshot of state my reaction point
is always going to look like this,
it's deterministically going
to look like this, right?
Every single time given the state and
given this props its always
going to look this way.
Now what's advantageous about
thinking about your component in this
particular light is you get to
eliminate the axis of time, right?
So I'm sure many of you have debugged
a prob with JQUERY or Angular or
something like that.
Where you have, I have to click
this button and this button and
then this button and
then this broke over here, right?
So you have to go through these series
of just weirdness to get to eventually
this state.
You have to think about events over time
leading to this particular problem, right?
With react components it's just really,
given this state, this breaks, right?
And I feel like that's a much more simple
thing to think about because you no longer
have to think about going through periods
of times to arrive at this point, right?
If I put this state into this component,
it just breaks.
Or doesn't break, right?
>> Brian Holt: So yes, that's what I
wanted to demonstrate to you here,
that given this state, right?
Where this state,
it's going to look like this, right?
So when the state looks like this, that
component is always gonna look like that.
Does that make sense?
Cool, okay, so-
>> Speaker 2: There's a few minor
questions in chat.
>> Speaker 2: Amir's asking
could you recap why the names,
file names are jsx instead of js?
In version two they're all js.
>> Brian Holt: The answer to that question
is in version two they were all js because
that's where it seemed like things
were going with Create React App.
Create React App enforces .js.
And then we switch to the Airbnb
style rules which enforces JSX.
And version one was JSX as well.
[LAUGH] So another words no ones really
decided yet where it's going to be.
I just went with what Airbnb decided.
So yeah, that's why it is,
because the Airbnb rules enforce that.
>> Speaker 2: And could you recap
the tradeoff between using the constructor
vs not?
>> Brian Holt: I just think
this is more succinct, right?
If you use the constructor method
that's Valid ES6 today and this is
using a Stage Two proposal so I like this
better because I find it easier to read.
The other reason why it's going to
be beneficial is because when we
get into flow types,
flow can understand this better.
Which we will talk about
that when we get to flow.
>> Speaker 3: Would we have to use
a constructor if this component
was accessing props.
>> Brian Holt: Nope, so
I see what you're saying,
cuz you have to call super props
inside of the constructor.
So you're overwriting
the react constructor,
if you write your own constructor.
So the default react constructor
will take care of the props for you.
>> Brian Holt: Good question.
>> Brian Holt: Anymore?
>> Brian Holt: Cool, so it's probably
the last thing we'll do today.
Let's actually use searchTerm,
rather than just being something
cute that displays at the top.
What I want to do is, given some
search term, so if I type black,
right, I only want Black Mirror
to show up, right?
So I want to be able to search in real
time my various shows I have up here.
So what we're going to do, cuz we're
gonna do something a little clever.
So we have preload.shows, right?
And we're using that to map
out to a set of components.
So if I want to show less components,
I can do a little bit more functional foo
and I can just filter before I map, right?
So I can just filter out the ones I
don't want based on that search term and
then only display the ones that I want.
So what I'm gonna do here is I'm gonna,
before I call .map,
I'm gonna call .filter.
>> Brian Holt: And what I'm gonna do
here is I'm gonna pass in a show.
So with filter if I return true for
any given item it's going
to keep it in the array.
If I return false it's going
to take it out of the array.
So if I did false right here,right,
I would get nothing, right?
If I put true here,
I would get everything, right?
So what I'm gonna do here is I'm
gonna check to see if the search
term exists in either the title or
the description, right?
So I wanna know, are you in the title,
so show.title or
the description, so show.description.
>> Brian Holt: And then I'm gonna say.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah,
I think this is the best way to do it.
Whatever!
>> Brian Holt: I want to
be case insensitive, right?
So I'm gonna say toUppercase,
>> Brian Holt: .indexOf,
so I'm gonna check if it
exists anywhere in the string.
>> Brian Holt: That's gonna be
this.state .search term, right?
So I'm gonna check if this.search
term exists inside of the show.
Which I'm also gonna put to uppercase,
right?
Because I want to make this
totally case insensitive and
then I'm just gonna check to see if
it's greater than or equal to zero.
>> Brian Holt: Whoops,
that should be a dot.
>> Brian Holt: This is a little dense,
you could pull this out if
this made you feel better.
>> Brian Holt: But
let's just kind of recap here, all right?
So filter, right,
we're doing a filter on this.
>> Brian Holt: This I'm putting show
title and show description in one string
together, right, so I can check
both the description and the title.
I can put it in either order it
doesn't really matter, okay?
I'm putting them to upper case because
I want to take case sensitivity out of
the question.
And then asking in this
uppercase string right here
can you find search term,
also in uppercase, right?
Cuz index of is gonna give you somewhere,
if it's greater than or
equal to zero, it exists in the string,
and if it doesn't exist in the string,
it's gonna return negative one, right?
So true if it's in the string, or
false if it's not in the string, right?
And that's what we're
gonna be filtering on.
How do we feel about that?
>> Brian Holt: It's a little dense but
this is a good way of hacking at search,
right?
This isn't exactly elastic search.
I think their algorithm's a little
bit more sophisticated, but
this'll do the job for what we're doing.
So now, if I type black,
it's only gonna show Black Mirror and
Orange is the New Black, right?
If I type house, it's gonna type House of
Cards, or game, I get Game of Thrones.
>> Brian Holt: Come on,
that's pretty cool, right, pretty cool?
Pretty cool.
Now, yes!
So this is what I'm getting at, and what I
keep harping on, is givien this state, and
given these props, this is what
this component looks like, right.
So with the snapshot that, I could even,
here's a good way of doing it, right.
So we can set the default state.
So if I put game right here,
and I save it,
what's going to be
rendered on first render?
>> Brian Holt: Just Game of Thrones,
right?
So given that snapshot, where the search
term is game, then it's gonna be only
showing Game of Thrones, then as soon
as I delete it, I get everything back.
>> Brian Holt: Does that make sense?
So this is like,
it only took me six goddamn hours, but
we eventually got to the point
of why React is amazing, right?
I think this is a really powerful,
intuitive and
performant way of writing Java Script.
I think it's a way to write scalable apps.
And the interesting thing is you can come
back later, and I mean barring this,
I'd probably abstract this out
into some sort of module or
something actually
a little bit more robust.
But barring this little mess right here,
this is actually pretty easy
to read through, right?
It's pretty intuitive that given this
state, you get this sort of output.
I find it easy to use the term Azura.
We use it about, right?
>> Brian Holt: Any questions?
>> Brian Holt: Yeah, this is one of the
things that really made me realize this is
great, I want to keep writing this.
>> Brian Holt: Someone pointed out to me
the other day that the posters are of
uneven size.
Now I can't unsee it.
>> Speaker 2: You push.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah, definately.
>> Speaker 2: There's a few people who
are missing something along the way.
>> Brian Holt: Easy to do, I mean we
are writing a pretty big app together.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah, I love how many
people have written into us how
this course gave them a job right?
Because it's like so real world that
people got, you now know how to build
a reacts production app and
I got this job because of it.
>> Brian Holt: It's super rewarding.
So I was at a user group,
the modern web meetup group in San Jose.
Last week some guy was on the phone.
It was a little rude, but
it was pretty cool too.
He walks up to me and says, hey, I got
a job at Facebook because of your course,
and then just ran off.
[LAUGH] So I was like, thank you,
or you're welcome, or I don't know.
I was both offended and bewildered and
honored all at the same time.
More honored, it was super cool.
No, it's awesome to hear that kinda stuff.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah, the whole point of
that is software development is hard,
right?
Building a real-world application is
difficult, there's a lot of moving peices.
>> Brian Holt: For sure.
>> Speaker 2: You're sorta de-mistifying
each piece, especially with the videos,
people can kind of come back to it and
all that.
>> Brian Holt: For sure.
>> Speaker 2: But
it is daunting, cuz it is hard.
That's why people get paid a lot of
money to write this kind of stuff.
>> Brian Holt: For sure, for sure,
that's why this class is structured the
way it is, I like I like exercises that
I leave for you to do on your own and
connect the dots yourself.
But that's more useful for,
I feel like, algorithms and
like little bite sized pieces, right?
We're talking about modern application
development, and that's not an exercises,
like okay, build a Netflix app, go, and
I'm just gonna sit over here, right?
That doesn't work, right?
We need to sit down together and
build things and it's useful for
you to type things even if
you don't understand them.
At least for me,
the act of typing something helps me
to connect dots in my brain, right?
Especially, I put all the pieces together
and then I step back and it's like, okay,
now I see that it was a puzzle,
it's a picture of something.